Infosys Interview Questions for DevOps Consultant :

Pls introduce yourself OR Can you please walk me through your profile?
What is your role in your Project?
What are the Projects that you have worked upon?
What is the tool that you use in your Project for CICD ? Jenkins 
Diff between Jenkins and Harness ?
What are the benefits of Harness over Jenkins and what are the benefits of migrating from Jenkins to Harness ?
Explain the CICD Roadmap & Pipeline that you have developed.
How do you troubleshoot what is the issue when a CICD Pipeline fails ? Using multiple stages and checking logs
What are types of Pipelines in Jenkins? Declarative and Scriptive Pipeline 
What is your number one and number two skill ?
What are the activities that you perform with Docker?
What kind of branching strategy do you follow in Git and GitHub?
Diff between git pull and git fetch.
Write the syntax of Dockerfile on a Text editor.
How do we create multiple containers using docker or dockefile? (Using Docker Compose or Replica Set in Kubernetes)
Where is our static code stored ? For the base image, the static code is stored In Jenkins workspace. For distroless image, the static code is stored In the base image.
In the dockerfile, when we use the copy command then it copies static code from where to where?
Write the syntax of multi stage Pipeline using Groovy script.
Write the syntax of CICD Pipeline using shell scripting to automate and trigger the CICD Pipeline.
How do you monitor your applications in real time? In the initial phase/starting of my career, I worked in a Support Project working on monitoring Applications using a tool called Kibana. Actually, the tool was created by some other team we had to monitor the dashboard and check the logs. Also, I was involved in other activities like creating documents using Excel and PowerPoint.
What is a VPC?
What are the advantages of a VPC?
How do two different VPCs connect to each other or any other Application ?
What is a Jenkins file?
What is IAC ?
What is a state file in Terraform?
What is Hashicorp Vault ?
Tell me anything that you have learnt last time in your project that was new to you.
Where do you see yourself in the next 2-3 years ?
What are the next set of technologies that you are going to learn in the future?